So now the first thing we have to do while creating an extension is that we have to create a scraping function.
What is scraping? First of all, let's understand this.
Scraping means that you are extracting text content or any type of things from your web page.
For example, tomorrow you have to know the current price of the laptops.
And you don't have any such source, you don't have any API.
So what will you do? You will go to any such website which sells laptops.
And there you will go from there and check the prices.
So this is a normal way. But if you are a developer, then what will you do?
At that time you will write a code.
You will write a function which will go to the website on your behalf.
It will scrape all the prices from there.
That is, it will extract from there and then it will show you.
So this is scraping.
And there are many things of scraping.
There are many functionalities.
You can make many useful things from scraping.
So the main thing here is to scrape.
So what will you do for that? First of all, you will open your server.
By doing npm run dev.
Start the server.
And after that what I have done.
You have to go to the source folder.
In it, you have to go to the popup.
And after going to the popup, you have to open popup.psx.
And here we will start writing our scraping function.
Now what will we do with that?
First of all, there are curly braces in the popup.
So you remove them.
And after that, first of all, we make a function.
Whose name we will name by scraping page content.
Scraping page content.
And this will be an arrow function.
So now in this, the first thing we will put.
That while scraping, you don't need anything.
For example, we don't need script tags.
We don't know what is written in it.
We don't want sorry.
And what is written in style tags, we don't care about that.
So scraping works only in HTML elements.
Your frontend of your code.
In which HTML is written.
When you do view page source.
So scraping works for you to extract content from the same HTML elements.
So first we will exclude some things.
We will put it in excluded tags.
In it, we will mention such tags which we don't want to scrape.
For example, for now we don't want to scrape the script tag.
After that, we don't want content in the style tag.
We don't want it.
Now after this, we will create a walker.
Which will travel on the whole HTML elements.
Will pick up everyone one by one.
And the first thing it will do is.
I will tell you.
It will traverse all these elements.
That is, I will tell you this once nicely.
So this document.body.
And after this.
NoteFilter.showText.
Now what happened here.
Let's see this once.
So basically, this tree walker.
Which we have made.
Document.createTWalker.
What does it do?
Its work is that whatever your HTML elements are.
Which are your HTML elements.
It will go on them one by one.
And it will pick up all the text content elements inside them.
That is.
What we have done here is.
It has said that document.body.
That is, the top element.
Body element.
From there you go to the end.
Start with the body element.
And till the end you go one by one.
On all the elements.
And inside them too.
To go to the text elements.
Only go to them.
That is.
For example, at the top.
The body element.
Inside it.
There can be any image tag.
There can be any div tag.
Inside it.
There can be any iframe.
So here there can be many elements.
But we told it.
That you start with body tag.
Walk.
Right.
Start filtering out from body tag.
And go till the end.
And only pick up text elements.
Inside which text.
Like inside any span tag.
Inside any heading tag.
And then.
You can go.
Inside any span tag.
Inside any heading tag.
Inside any paragraph tag.
So.
Go to such a place.
Where there are text elements.
Hope.
You must have understood so much.
Now we are moving ahead.
So you will understand better.
After this.
We will make a variable by doing a page content.
And in it.
Whatever is our page content.
We will append it.
That is.
We will put it in it.
Inside the page content.
Whatever we will get.
Text.
We will keep putting it in it.
Then.
We will make one more variable.
That is.
Whatever is in it.
Which we will keep in name.
CurrentNode.
What will we do on this.
We are not assigning any value to it.
Inside current node.
We.
In whichever node we are.
That is.
What will be the node?
Basically.
Elements.
Suppose.
We go to any.
Body element.
Then below that.
There is head.
There is a span.
Then below that.
There is a div.
So.
Whatever element we are inside.
That.
Will be stored inside currentNode.
For example.
Now.
If we are in div tag, then it will show div tag.
Now after this, we will put a loop.
And this will be a while loop.
What will be the while loop?
It will check the current node.
And here I will tell you nicely, I will write first what is this.
So what is the work of the while loop here?
So basically, this current node will work to put the next node in it.
That is, whatever it will travel, this walker will move forward,
then that node will change.
First it will be the div node, div tag.
You understand the node from the element here.
Div element will be there.
Then there will be a paragraph element.
So it is working here.
It will keep setting the next node in the current node.
That is, first div tag happened, so it will set div tag.
As it moved forward, then paragraph tag came,
then it will set paragraph tag in it.
So it is doing this work in it.
Now in it, we will check some conditions first.
If, first condition we will check here.
That if tag is excluded,
if tag is not excluded,
then what will we want?
If tag is not excluded, that is, if there is no script tag,
if there is no style tag,
then we will want it to be scraped.
And the text content in it,
put it in the page content.
Sorry, put it in the page content.
Now understand it like this.
That we went into some tag.
It can be any tag.
There is a div tag, which is a div tag, for example.
Now there will be no style or script tag in the div tag.
So what will we do now?
Now we have seen that there is no tag in it,
which is excluded.
So the text content will be scraped from it.
And it will be appended in the page content.
That is, it will be put.
So we are checking here first.
That if there is no excluded tag,
and we will name that excluded tag by tag.
If the tag is not excluded, then we will name it by tag.
And we will say, call an arrow function.
And before that, we will close it like this.
This is a function.
So in it, we will use an arrow method.
We will say here that if the current node,
which is the parent node,
that is, now I will do one thing.
I will write this code in front of you once.
And then I will explain it to you.
So that you can understand it well.
So for this, I want to do this first.
OK.
So here there is a problem with some tags.
This is fine.
Here it is fine.
It is attached here in the while loop.
This is fine.
OK.
And here it is saying that it is not getting excluded tags.
Excluded tags.
Did we do something wrong with the spelling of excluded tags?
Yes.
So here we made the spelling of excluded tags wrong.
OK.
So what is happening now?
Let's understand it well once.
We said that if the tag is not excluded,
then we will name it by tag.
That the tag is not excluded.
So we will name it by tag.
And now in the current node,
current node, for example, is in a paragraph tag.
So that paragraph tag is inside div tag.
There is a paragraph tag which comes inside a div tag.
So we will say that it is its parent node.
So if the parent node of current node exists,
then we will take its tag name and we will do it in lower case.
For example, current tag is paragraph tag.
And its parent node is div tag.
So we will do the name of div tag in lower case.
And we will store it instead of tag.
And we will compare it with tag.
And then what we will do is,
whatever will be our page content here,
whatever content will be there,
text content will be there.
See, we wrote that whatever text content of current node will be there,
we will put it directly in page content.
So basically we have done nothing here.
Let me explain you in the easiest way.
That we saw that tag is excluded.
If it is not there, then we took its text content
and then cleared all the spaces from it.
And we put it in page content.
You must have understood this much.
So we did the same thing.
After this, all this is done.
And if tag is excluded, then we are not doing anything for it.
Now we come out of our while loop.
We come out of our while loop.
And here the first thing we will do is,
that now the page content,
means this,
some things should not remain in it.
That means some angular brackets should not remain.
Some things are there which are sometimes left.
So we want to remove those things from our page content.
For example, if someone has put any comment in div tag,
in paragraph tag,
then no one does that.
But if someone has done that,
then they should be removed.
They should be replaced.
If there are any white spaces,
then they should be removed.
So for that what we will do is,
that we will clean it first.
Whatever content has come to us,
we will clean it first.
So what will we do with clean text?
That we will take page content first.
And then after this, we will use a regex here.
That is, we will use regular expressions here.
Let me tell you,
that here we will use something like this.
All the things with angular brackets from the page content,
if anything is in angular brackets,
then it will remove it.
And it will just remove it normally.
So what will happen here?
For example, if I take it here,
that anything is written here.
Like it is written here,
hello world,
this is,
react.
By doing this, anything is written.
If it is written in angular brackets,
then you will not want that along with our page content,
we just need text.
We do not need angular brackets.
So we will remove all these things
if it will exist then.
Otherwise we will keep it as it is.
And the second thing will be,
that will be,
trimmed text.
That is,
whatever white spaces it will have in the text,
in the code,
we will want to remove that.
That is, in the sense of our page content in the code,
whatever white spaces it will have in it,
we will want to remove all of them.
So we will remove something like this.
So first of all,
we cleaned the text,
that is, all the useless angular brackets,
we removed all of them.
After this,
we cleaned it.
That is, all the spaces,
what did we remove first?
Okay.
This thing is done.
So now after this,
the second thing that comes,
we made the scrape page content.
But,
when we will go to scrape it now,
when we will call it,
then it will not scrape.
Now why is this?
So the first thing is,
that our extension,
let me show you,
our extension,
when it will go to scrape,
then it will scrape the content inside itself.
That is, I want to show you,
I open my browser.
And after opening the browser,
I go where my extension is.
And here,
I show you,
this is our extension.
This is our extension.
Now what is happening here?
First let's see this.
Now here,
for example,
I have run the function of scrape content.
So what will it do?
That it will consider this extension as its web page.
Because we have not specified anything there.
So as soon as the scrape function will run,
then it will give you
by extracting the things inside this extension.
Let me show you by doing this thing.
So here,
as soon as
I go to
my code,
and here I put a function of onclick
inside this div.
As soon as it is onclicked,
so here,
first of all,
we do console.log.
dot log
trim text whatever it is,
we show it here.
Whenever someone clicks in hello world,
then we will call this function.
We will call the function of scrape page content.
Now let's check it once.
We came to our browser.
This is our extension.
Whatever we have in hello world,
we have clicked.
Let's go to inspect.
Let's go to console.
And let's click it once.
Why is it not working now?
Let's check it once.
Let's go to the console.
For this,
I go to my terminal once.
Is there any problem here?
GSX attribute must only be assigned
a non-empty expression.
So there was some problem up there,
but it has been fixed.
And now it has been successfully run.
But before that,
let's check our code once again.
Here we have logged.
So let's show it directly on alert.
Let's do one thing.
We will show an alert of trim text.
And in the onclick method,
the scrape page content will run.
And let's check the terminal once again.
Everything is running successfully now.
Let's go back to the browser.
And after this,
let's see it once by clicking.
As soon as I clicked,
the content of hello world came.
But what did we want?
That we don't get the content of our extension.
We want the content of our web page.
This is written by Google,
this is written by YouTube.
All these things are written behind.
We want this.
What will we do with this content?
So now what we have to do is
first of all,
we have to extract the content of the web page.
Till now,
the content of the extension was being extracted.
So for that,
we will use the tab and scripting API of Chrome.
Basically,
these are the functions,
these are the methods.
So for that,
what we do is
we make another function by summarizing
the content of our script page.
And this function,
this function has been given to you
in your code section.
So you copy this function from the code section.
And I have pasted it here.
Now I will explain it to you nicely once.
What is this?
We have put in this summarized function,
chrome.tabs.query.
What does this do?
It detects the current window.
Current tabs.
It detects the current tab in which you are currently in.
And then this chrome.scripting.executescript method
runs this scripting function in that same tab.
So when you call this summarized function,
then in whichever current tab you are in,
in that tab,
the script,
the page content function will be called.
So now,
for example,
if we go to any web page,
if we go to any Wikipedia page,
and when we call this summarized function,
for example,
right now,
in our text,
hello world,
we were calling the script page content function.
Now we call the summarized function once.
And whenever you call the summarized function,
that is,
when you click on hello world,
then,
what was happening earlier was that
the content of the extension was being fetched.
But now,
the content of the web page will be fetched here.
So here,
we have just declared here that
it detects the current tab.
And after that,
this function executes any function in that tab.
So now,
once we go to our web page,
and once in the web page,
now we open any page.
For example,
we open some Wikipedia page,
in which we do AI Wikipedia.
And here I open it.
And now I open the extension.
And here,
as soon as we click on hello world,
then,
then for this,
there is one thing,
we forgot to set up one thing,
which is to lock it in the console.
So once we go back.
And here,
now let's go up,
a little script page content,
which is our function.
Let's see it.
And here,
the alert,
we had kept this alert.
We remove this alert.
Let's do one thing,
that we make a state before this.
And in that state,
we will set the data.
And in that,
what will we do?
That we will set the summary,
or we will set the data.
For now,
for now,
for now.
So what do we do for this?
That,
const,
and we write the name of the state,
we,
extracted data,
extracted,
and set extracted.
Extracted,
by doing,
use state.
And for now,
we do something like this.
Now,
let's do one thing,
that we,
set,
extracted,
OK.
And in it,
we set,
the framed text.
After this,
we will lock it in the console.
By the way,
we did not need to set it,
because in the future,
we will directly send this data to the API.
But for now,
we have done it.
So,
OK.
Extracted.
And,
now,
what will we do?
Now,
we will go to our web page once.
So,
we have come back to our web page.
Once,
we go back,
and click on Hello World.
As soon as we clicked on Hello World,
so,
now you have to notice one thing,
that it must have been logged in the console.
When you inspect,
console,
when you open the console,
you do not see anything here.
Why does this happen?
Because,
here,
the Chrome Scripting API,
that data,
it is not here,
it is logged in the console of the main website.
As soon as you open the main website,
and inspect,
and,
as soon as you go inside the console,
so,
why is the data not showing here for now?
Let me check once.
Let's click on Hello World again.
And,
nothing happened here for now.
If something happens,
that your API,
that your extension does not work,
then,
you have to go to Chrome,
forward slash slash extensions,
and,
here,
you have to check,
what errors are coming.
And,
before that,
you can check here also.
Here,
we are not getting any error,
but,
here,
it is saying that,
cannot read properties of undefined.
So,
for now,
it is something like this.
So,
you have removed it.
And,
here,
try to refresh it once.
You refresh it.
After refreshing,
go back to the extension.
And,
now,
you can see,
what data is coming on clicking.
Let's check it once again.
Let's check it.
As we clicked on Hello World,
now also,
there is some issue in the data.
So,
I try to resolve it a little.
I will go back to the code once.
And,
what problem is coming here?
What problem is coming here?
Here,
all these things are there.
We have set it.
We have made this function.
We have done everything.
And,
after this,
even after everything is done,
here,
we have summarized.
After summarizing,
this is everything.
We have removed everything.
Let's check it once again
by putting alert.
Crammed.
By text.
We have removed it.
And,
here,
now,
one more,
last try.
And,
here,
you can see,
that,
that.
If you please.
Let's try one more last time
if we try one last time.
Let's just try it one more time.
If we click on hello word
and still
some problem
and still some problem
is coming.
Scrap Page Content.
Here is a problem
Scrap Page Content
here is a problem
cannot read properties of undefined reading execute script so
I just remembered one thing here that you have to give permission for scripting
and tabs to use execute script method in manifest.json
so this thing slips a lot of time from the mind
but you have to remember so what we do is first of all we go back to our
vscode and here we will go to public folder and open manifest.json
the permissions are active tab and below that you have to put a permission called tabs
tabs permission and below that you have to put a permission for scripting
you put this permission once and after that we go back and check
and now we update it once
and after that we go to hello world and click and now see that this is the full content
it has been scraped and here you can see that the full content is being shown here
so this is the requirement of permissions and it is important for us to keep this in mind
because we are doing scripting here so it is also important to take scripting permission
so here we have seen that how the content of the web page is being updated
and now we will go back to our vscode and click on update tab and below that you have to put a permission called tabs
and here we have seen that how the content of the web page is being updated